https://fsl.fmrib.ox.ac.uk/fsl/fslwiki/FEAT/UserGuide

Before Running FEAT
Before calling the FEAT GUI, you need to prepare each session's data as a 4D NIFTI or Analyze format image; 
there are utilities in fsl/bin called fslmerge and fslsplit to convert between multiple 3D images and a single 4D (3D+time) image. 
If the data requires any scanner-specific corrections (for example, for artefacts such as slice dropouts), this should be applied to 
the data before running FEAT.
Structural images for use as "highres" images in registration should normally be brain-extracted using BET before being used by FEAT.
.—————————————
FEAT Basics
To call the FEAT GUI, either type Feat in a terminal (type Feat_gui on Mac or Windows), or run fsl and press the FEAT button.
Now set the filename of the 4D input image (e.g. /users/sibelius/origfunc.nii.gz) by pressing Select 4D data. You can setup 
FEAT to process many input images, one after another, as long as they all require exactly the same analysis. Each one will 
generate its own FEAT directory, the name of which is based on the input data's filename (unless you enter an Output directory name).
Note that if you later run Statistics or if you are running Higher-level Analysis, then you can choose between selecting 
image files as the input or selecting FEAT directories. In the latter case first set the top two drop-down menus in the GUI 
and then select the FEAT directory or directories; it is important to select the FEAT directories before setting up anything 
else in FEAT. This is because quite a lot of FEAT settings are loaded from the first selected FEAT directory, possibly 
over-writing any settings which you might wish to change!
Total volumes (including volumes to be deleted) is automatically set from the input files chosen.
Now set Delete volumes. These should be the volumes that are not wanted because steady-state imaging is not reached for typically two or three volumes. These volumes are deleted as soon as FEAT is started, so any 4D data output by FEAT will not contain the deleted volumes. Note that Delete volumes should not be used to correct for the time lag between stimulation and the measured response - this is corrected for in the design matrix by convolving the input stimulation waveform with a blurring-and-delaying haemodynamic response function. Most importantly, remember when setting up the design matrix that the timings in the design matrix start at t=0 seconds, and this corresponds to the start of the first image taken after the deleted scans. In other words, the design matrix starts after the deleted scans have been deleted.
Set the TR (time from the start of one volume to the start of the next).
Now set the High pass filter cutoff point (seconds), that is, the longest temporal period that you will allow. A sensible setting in the case of an rArA or rArBrArB type block design is the (r+A) or (r+A+r+B) total cycle time. For event-related designs the rule is not so simple, but in general the cutoff can typically be reduced at least to 50s.
Note that most of the timing inputs in FEAT are set in seconds, not volumes. Total volumes and Delete volumes are exceptions.
Now click on the Stats tab and setup the model and required contrasts (for more detail see below).

When FEAT setup is complete and the Go button is pressed, the setup gets saved in a temporary FEAT setup file. Then a script (called feat - note the lower case) is run which uses the setup file and carries out all the FMRI analysis steps asked for, starting by creating a FEAT results directory, and copying the setup file into here, named design.fsf (this setup file can be later loaded back into FEAT using the Load button).
Once the script has started running you can Exit the FEAT GUI. The analysis will continue until completion, by default showing information about its progress in a web browser.
.————————————————
FEAT in Detail



First-level or Higher-level Analysis?
Use First-level analysis for analysing each session's data - i.e. the time-series analysis of the raw 4D FMRI data.
Use Higher-level analysis for combining first-level analyses. You can use this hierarchically - for example at second-level to analyse across several sessions and then at third-level to analyse across several subjects.



Full Analysis or Partial Analysis?
You can run a full analysis - Preprocessing and Statistics - or the individual stages separately
If you select Statistics, you may choose to select a a FEAT directory (or directories) instead of starting with 4D image data; the results already produced in those FEAT directories will then be used as appropriate.
Note that if you want to run only Statistics, you must select the FEAT directory/directories before editing the contrasts or thresholding parameters, as these will get reset on selection of the FEAT directory/directories.
Misc
Balloon help (the popup help messages in the FEAT GUI) can be turned off once you are familiar with FEAT.
The Progress watcher button allows you to tell Feat not to start a web browser to watch the FEAT analysis progress. If you are running lots of analyses you probably want to turn this off; you can view the same logging information by looking at the report_log.html files in any FEAT directories instead.
For the above two settings, you can control the default behaviour of the FEAT GUI by putting the following, with appropriate values set, in a file called .fslconf/feat.tclin your home directory; set fmri(help_yn) 1 set fmri(featwatcher_yn) 1
Brain/background threshold, % This is automatically calculated, as a % of the maximum input image intensity. It is used in intensity normalisation, brain mask generation and various other places in the FEAT analysis.
The next section controls the Design efficiency calculations made when setting up the EVs and contrasts in the paradigm design (see later for more on this). The Noise level % and Temporal smoothness together characterise the noise in the data, to be used only in the design efficiency estimation. The Noise level % is the standard deviation (over time) for a typical voxel, expressed as a percentage of the baseline signal level. The Temporal smoothness is the smoothness coefficient in a simple AR(1) autocorrelation model (much simpler than that actually used in the FILM timeseries analysis but good enough for the efficiency calculation here). If you want to get a rough estimate of this noise level and temporal smoothness from your actual input data, press the Estimate from data button (after you have told FEAT where your input data is). This takes about 30-60 seconds to estimate. This applies just the spatial and temporal filtering (i.e., no motion correction) that you have specified in the Pre-stats section, and gives a reasonable approximation of the noise characteristics that will remain in the fully preprocessed data, once FEAT has run. The Z threshold is the Z value used to determine what level of activation would be statistically significant, to be used only in the design efficiency calculation. Increasing this will result in higher estimates of required effect.
Cleanup first-level standard-space images; when you run a higher-level analysis, the first thing that happens is that first-level images are transformed into standard-space (in <firstlevel>.feat/reg_standard subdirectories) for feeding into the higher-level analysis. This takes up quite a lot of disk space, so if you want to save disk space, turn this option on and these these upsampled images will get deleted once they have been fed into the higher-level analysis. However, generating them can take quite a lot of time, so if you want to run several higher-level analyses, all using the same first-level FEAT directories, then leave this option turned off.



Data





